# The NetDRIVE 2026 Summer School

**15th-19th June 2026**

**[Location:](location.md) Durham University, [Department of Computer Science](location.md), Durham, UK**

A 5-day fully-funded summer school aimed at PhD students interested in changing the way they work to enable a move to Net Zero. The school will provide training and skills to help empower attendees to make real positive environmental change.




## Registration

We welcome applications from any UK based PhD student whose PhD research involves the use of computational or data facilities. The school provides practical training in sustainable practices but also has a strong emphasis on creating advocates for sustainable DRI. Applicants should therefore have a willingness and interest in becoming such an advocate. Applicants will be selected to represent a range of research areas, covering the different research councils within UKRI. 


[Registration](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=i9hQcmhLKUW-RNWaLYpvlKHkTxd26sdLkOaQl2zCEXpUN0hRTURJM0daWDdORUVNTjVJQ0NINTNBWi4u) is now open.

## Key Dates

- Deadline for applications: 1st February 2026
- Notification of acceptance: 15th February 2026
- Accpetance of place: 28th February 2026
- Second round acceptance, beginning 1st March 2026
- Summer school dates: 15-19th June 2026


## Social Programme

There will be ample opportunity to socialise and build collaborations with other attendees, with a series of engagement activities and social events.


## Programme

The programme is currently TBC and subject to change, however this draft should give an idea.

<!-- <table border="1" cellspacing="0" cellpadding="5"> -->
<table border="1" style="width: 100%; text-align: center;">
<tr>
  <td></td>
  <td><b>Monday </b></td>
  <td><b>Tuesday </b></td>
  <td><b>Wednesday </b></td>
  <td><b>Thursday </b></td>
  <td><b>Friday </b></td>
  <td><b>Saturday </b></td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td> 9:00 </td>
  <td> </td>
  <td> Emission coding surgery </td>
  <td> Data centre tour</td>
  <td> Environmental impact of HPC and AI </td>
  <td> Procurement and operational issues</td>
  <td rowspan=9> <a href="../hpcdays/social.html">Join the HPC Days Saturday Social!</a> </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td> 10:30 </td>
  <td colspan="5" align="center">Coffee</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td> 11:00 </td>
  <td> Arrival and registration</td>
  <td> Emission coding surgery</td>
  <td> Data centre tour</td>
  <td> Environmental impact of HPC and AI</td>
  <td> Procurement and operational issues</td>
<tr>
  <td> 12:30 </td>
  <td colspan="5" align="center">Lunch</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td> 13:30 </td>
  <td> Best practice in green software engineering </td>
  <td> System utilisation </td>
  <td> Data centre sustainability and monitoring </td>
  <td> Data management and FAIR</td>
  <td> Depart </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td> 15:00 </td>
  <td colspan="5" align="center">Coffee</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td> 16:00 </td>
  <td> Best practice in green software engineering</td>
  <td> System utilisation</td>
  <td> Data centre sustainability and monitoring </td>
  <td> Data management and FAIR</td>
  <td> </td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td> 18:00 </td>
  <td colspan="5" align="center">Social and refreshments</td>
</tr>
<tr>
  <td> 19:30 </td>
  <td> </td>
  <td> </td>
  <td> </td>
  <td> </td>
  <td> </td>
</tr>
</table>

## Accommodation, Travel and Funding

The summer school is located at the University of Durham and accommodation has been arranged at the Marriott Hotel in central Durham.

Accommodation will be provided to all successful applicants free of charge. Reasonable travel expenses will be also be funded.  We anticipate all applicants will travel by train and consider their environmental footprint when travelling. 

We recognise that this may be challenging for some individuals and should not be a barrier to participation, alternative forms of travel are appropriate to meet individual circumstances. 

